Hi, welcome everybody.
I'm Ken Greenbaum and I'm
going to be joined in a little
bit by two of my colleagues,
David and Frank,
and we're going to be talking about
high-performance QuickTime video.
Thank you all.
I know it's late in the week and
it's also late in the day and
it's right before the beer bash.
So we're going to try
to be quick with this.
We're going to not do a QA afterwards,
try to get you all onto campus.
And on campus you can track us down
and you can also track us down tomorrow
at the lab which begins at 10 o'clock.
So this is what we're
going to talk about today.
Of course, you all came here to
see the cool new stuff,
and we'll show you some
of the cool new things.
You've seen some of it already,
and we're going to talk about
how that applies to QuickTime.
So what's new with QuickTime and Leopard?
64-bit.
We're going to tell you how
QuickTime and 64-bit get along.
We're going to show you some
Quartz Composer integration.
We're going to talk about some
new features in QuickTime,
most notably Aperture Mode.
And we're going to talk about
QuickTime and Core Animation integration.
For those of you who were just
at the previous talk on QtKit,
you've heard an awful lot about QtKit,
but we're going to talk
about it a little bit more.
And maybe most importantly,
we're going to talk about how as
developers you want to position
yourselves with QuickTime.
So we're going to talk about
QuickTime strategy and also best
practices for developing for QuickTime.
First strategy.
So as you know, QuickTime's been around
for a long while now.
Because of that,
some of the APIs reflect that age.
The good news is that all the old code,
or at least most of it,
can continue to run.
And that's a wonderful thing.
It means that if you have old code bases,
you can still maintain them.
It's important to remember
while some of the APIs are old,
QuickTime internals are
remarkably new really.
They're modern.
Much of the video and
audio in QuickTime 7.
So if you're using those new APIs,
you really get the benefits
of all the new technologies
we've been delivering in OS X.
And you also can take advantage of
the new features that you've heard
about this week in terms of Leopard.
It's important to remember
that if you use the new APIs,
you're going to get the
highest performance,
you're going to get integration
with these new features,
and moving forward,
it's going to be the safest place
to be for your applications.
So first, let's talk about
QuickTime in 64-bit mode.
So again,
if you were just here at the session,
Tim told you a lot about it,
but this will be a brief review.
So we consider QuickTime to be a bridge
between the 64-bit and 32-bit worlds.
So maybe I should ask,
how many people are planning to
develop applications or maybe
currently developing applications
involving video and 64-bit?
Okay, there are actually a surprising
number of hands that came up.
I would love it if you folk came up,
not afterwards,
but tomorrow or at the beer
bash and tell me what all
you're planning to do with that.
So for those who haven't
really considered 64-bit yet,
64-bit is great.
It's really great if you need it.
It's especially nice,
the LP64-bit mode really means
that you have long pointers,
pointers point to 64-bit values.
It means you can memory
map just huge data files.
It's really important for the sciences.
But there's a question.
Once you have these huge databases,
how do you share them
with your colleagues?
It's simply impossible to copy
and share those databases.
Well, we think one thing that you can
do is actually output analysis
to QuickTime movie files and
then trade the movie files.
So for those of you who were at
Bertrand's State of the Union,
how many people were at
the State of the Union?
Okay, that's quite a few people.
I wasn't.
I was busy preparing for these.
So I'm not sure.
I know that he showed a demo.
This is the demo.
This is still from the demo.
Pretty much it uses
Very large database, molecular data,
and it renders that to
a QuickTime movie file.
So this is sort of the kind of
process that we're talking about.
But I'm not sure if he showed
you the QuickTime movie
that was generated from it.
We're going to show it to you.
Or if this is not the actual one,
this is one that's similar.
So it's pretty cool.
And of course, easy to trade this around,
impossible to trade
that original data set,
or at least very challenging to.
So 64-bit and QuickTime.
It's really important to
remember that QtKit is the
64-bit interface for QuickTime.
This is your entree
into the 64-bit world.
And there's not going to be 64-bit
support for the present C APIs.
So in terms of QtKit,
the 64-bit API is identical
to the 32-bit API.
Let's take a quick look.
So new in Leopard,
there's a new function in it to
writable data that allows you
to instance a movie in memory.
But the rest of this should
be familiar to you folk.
To add a frame of video to
a movie you call add image.
To play the resulting movie,
you call play on it.
So very similar to what you'd
expect if you were already using
QtKit and hopefully something
easy to use if you begin using it.
So next we're going to talk about
Quartz Composer integration.
So Quartz Composer is great.
We've seen and heard a lot about it.
We've seen the demos.
Hopefully you attended
some of the sessions even.
It's been around for a while now.
He released it with Tiger.
But in this talk,
we're going to briefly talk
about how to integrate Quartz
Composer and QuickTime together.
And there are two things
that make that possible.
The first is that Quartz Composer itself
ships with a QuickTime movie node.
And that's your way to get
QuickTime movies into your composition.
And you can have any number of those,
as we'll demonstrate in a little bit.
And then the second part maybe
is a little more esoteric,
that there's actually a Quartz Composer
QuickTime component and importer.
So using those things are what
allow us to do some of the
really cool forms of integration
that we're going to demonstrate.
So Quartz Composer compositions
are actually what we call
first-class QuickTime media types,
which means that we can bring
those directly into the movies
and we can treat them as if
they're just another movie track.
And that's pretty cool.
Also,
the Quartz Composer QuickTime importer
is what allows us to take a
Quartz Composer composition,
a QTZ file, and basically drag it into
QT Player and have it play.
And that's also what allows us to play
compositions within our slide sets.
So Quartz Composer makes for a
very interesting video source.
It's computer graphics,
and computer graphics by
nature are very flexible.
So Quartz Composer is actually
resolution independent,
and it's resolution independent
in terms of time as well as space.
Quartz Composer supports alpha channels,
which are really great
because as you know,
those really come in handy when it's
time to composite things together.
Quartz Composer is
Core Image accelerated,
and that means you can do all sorts
of wonderful things in real time.
And of course, Quartz Composer has a
very interesting model,
a filter graph that allows
you to create compositions
and edit existing compositions
without requiring programming.
So that allows people who are maybe
more artistic than programmers to be
able to create new content and effects.
And we're really happy about that.
But with all this great
flexibility come challenges.
Right now,
Quartz Composer only understands
what we call square pixels.
And we'll talk a lot more about
pixel aspect ratios in a little bit.
But for now,
remember that Quartz Composer doesn't
really understand video right now.
In a similar way,
Quartz Composer doesn't understand what
an interlaced movie format is or video.
So right now, we have to do some things
to work around those issues,
and you also have to be aware
of where those might pop up.
And we'll talk about some of that.
So it's very interesting.
There's this interesting circular
kind of relationship in terms
of who hosts who in this case.
You can actually take a
QuickTime movie and put it inside
a Quartz Composer composition via
those nodes we were talking about.
Or you can take--
A Quartz Composer track and put
it inside a QuickTime movie.
And we're going to show you
a demonstration of that.
And then I think the most
exciting things are what I'm
calling these compound situations
that are a combination of both.
So first we're going to talk
about QuickTime track in a movie.
I didn't take the time out of
the talk to give a demo of this,
but this is what it would look like if
we took Quartz Composer composition and
dragged it into the QuickTime player.
So this works again because
of the component importer
that we already talked about.
And the next points are very important.
That it's actually QuickTime that's
imposing the frame dimensions,
the frame times,
and the frame rates on the composition.
So that's what's changing the nature of
the composition from being this computer
graphics run as fast as you can kind of
world into something that's much more
similar to what we expect from video.
And a very nice feature of this is
once you've brought it into QuickTime,
then you can export the result into
any QuickTime supported movie format.
So you went from having this composition,
computer graphics, to having something
that's actually video.
So this is your print to video function.
So we're going to talk about use of
Quartz Composer as an overlay track.
But first, let's talk a little bit about
what's significant about using
these Quartz Composer compositions.
The composition is, really,
a description of animation.
And that description doesn't
change with respect to length.
It's the same.
And most of that size tends to be
the actual media that's included.
So in a little bit we're
going to show you a demo.
It's going to have a bouncing cue.
That's what I mean by media.
That's something that's
imported into Quartz Composer.
And that takes up a whole lot
of space of that composition.
But we could display that bouncing
cue for one second or 100 hours,
and the composition is the same length.
So if you add that into your movie,
you sort of get that almost for free.
It averages out to nothing.
You can use this overlay
technique for a lot of things,
crawls, titles,
all sorts of fancy things.
I'm just going to show you a very,
very simple example of it.
Can we cut to the demo machine, please?
So if you notice there's a bouncing
cue in the lower right hand corner.
And that's the composition.
And we could do anything that was
much more fancy or much subtler,
but this is what we did in this case.
I think you get the idea.
Can we go back to slides please?
So what exactly went on?
First of all,
there was no programming required.
We created a composition,
and we added the
composition to the movie.
This is how it works.
This is the Quartz Composer interface,
probably you've seen before.
This is the image that we imported.
In this case, this is our cue.
Here are a couple that handle the
spatial transformation that's happening.
This is a node that handles timing.
And you'll see in the lower
left-hand corner the result.
And if you notice, the cue is on the
checkerboard background.
And that's how we do the overlay.
In terms of the QuickTime movie
this was brought into,
we already had the movie
in QuickTime Player.
Then we brought up the property panel.
You can see we selected,
there's a new track,
the Quartz Composer track.
We specify the size of it.
We put it on-- I don't
know if you can see it,
but this is the very first layer,
layer negative 1.
And then in terms of transparency,
we choose alpha.
And that's as simple as it gets.
Let's talk about the compound scenario.
So this is where things get very,
very interesting.
Our users are used to
seeing very flashy content.
They see it produced on TV,
and they really expect it from
all of us in our applications.
And we think that this type of
integration is one way to produce it.
So pretty much what we
have is a composition.
The composition has multiple
QuickTime nodes in it.
The QuickTime movie basically
brings that in as a track.
Or if you're dealing with an application,
it can integrate the Quartz
Composer via Visual Context.
That application can programmatically
control the composition.
So in this example coming up,
we don't do this.
But if we wanted to,
we could programmatically
change the video content,
trigger the switching to go on,
do these type of things.
But as we have the caveats,
there are concerns that we have to have.
And that is that you want your true
video content to match the content that
is being produced by Quartz Composer.
So just for example,
you may have to de-interlace
the movie content before it
comes into Quartz Composer.
That is, if your movie content started
out being interlaced content.
And you might have to re-interlace that
as it comes out of Quartz Composer just
so it looks the same as the native video.
Let's see the demo.
Please can we switch-- oh,
you're ahead of me.
Thank you.
So here we're switching
entirely too fast back and forth
between two pieces of video.
And you can see that it
has a very nice effect,
3D effect.
So you can do these things and more.
Let's go back to slides, please.
So in terms of references,
this is where you can
go for more information.
There's the QCTV example,
and there's a very nice tech note as
well that has more information on this.
Aperture Modes.
This is a new feature in QuickTime 7.1.
And it's a feature that requires
a little bit of motivation.
So let's talk about why
aperture modes are necessary.
Video and computer graphics
are inherently different,
or at least they have very
different backgrounds.
Video started out in
terms of an analog world.
In computers, at least what we think
of as modern computers,
are digital.
So the first concept we're
going to talk about is this
concept of pixel aspect ratio.
And sometimes we call that PASP,
and now you know what that means.
So computers were designed
to have square pixels.
Why?
It just makes sense mathematically.
Things render more or less properly
when your pixels are square.
And when I say square,
I mean they have a ratio of their
height to width that's equal to one.
Video, as I mentioned,
is an analog thing,
or at least it started out that way.
No concept of pixels at all.
Pretty much you had analog lines.
And you didn't start associating pixels
with video until we started digitizing.
[Transcript missing]
Next, clean aperture.
We also call that clap.
So computers were designed to
display all of their pixels.
There are none that are
hidden or invisible.
TVs, also being analog devices,
were designed to hide pixels.
Basically, 5% to 10% of the video
image was purposely hidden
behind the plastic bezel.
That's all by design.
So there has to be some way that we can
describe the nature of our video content,
which part was intended to be seen and
which part wasn't intended to be seen.
The part that's not intended to
be seen contains all sorts of
mistakes and bloopers and things
that we really don't want to see.
So these aperture modes,
these concepts were defined
in SMPTE 187 back in 1995.
These are the concepts
that we're dealing with.
Pixel aspect ratio, clean aperture,
production aperture,
edge processing region.
We'll talk about those.
What's important from the
QuickTime perspective is that
things like PASP and CLAP should be
identified with your video content.
And we do that by tagging the movies.
There's also Aperture Mode APIs that
we've added to QuickTime.
And pretty much that allows you as
the developer to tell QuickTime how
to deal with these values.
And I'll give you
examples of those as well.
We have four supported aperture modes.
The first is classic.
This is really what you're used to.
You get all the pixels and there's
no aspect ratio correction.
The next is Clean, Clean Aperture Mode.
This is really what your
end user probably expects.
We do all the processing,
we only show what we
call the clean pixels,
and we do perform
aspect ratio correction.
The next two are really intended for
probably professional video editors.
In one case, we perform the aspect ratio
correction and show all the pixels.
In another case,
we don't do any corrections at all.
We don't alter the signal.
So this is an example of DV.
It's what we all are used to seeing.
And we're so used to seeing it
that we probably don't even notice
anymore on the left and right edges
there are these vertical bars.
And if you look at this blow up,
you'll see that those vertical
bars are more complicated,
that there's no fewer than
eight columns of pixels that
are somehow bad or peculiar.
They're off.
And really this is because the
codec doesn't define that area.
We're not supposed to display these.
So these are the modes again.
This is also from DV.
It's a specially prepared signal.
In this mode, where we're conforming
aperture to encoded pixels,
we don't provide any pixel
aspect ratio correction.
So I believe you should be able to
see that the circle in the center
isn't so much a circle as it is oval.
It should appear to be very wide.
Also, there are these fuchsia
bars on either side.
To make the circle or lack of
circularity a little apparent,
we can measure the dimensions.
And we can see that it's 390
pixels wide and 345 tall.
And interestingly enough,
that's an 11 to 10 ratio.
And we're going to see those
numbers come back again.
If we correct the pixel
aspect ratio by conforming the
aperture mode to production,
Then we get back to something that
hopefully appears round to you.
And you can see that when we measured it,
it's 354 by 354.
When we correct pass and clap,
we're actually conforming the
aperture mode to clean aperture,
and we're getting back to the 640 by
480 dimensions that we know and love.
You can see that the
vertical bars are gone,
and hopefully things appear
to be round as they should be.
So this is another way to look at it
using an object we're all familiar with.
So in this case,
the edge processing region are those
areas that didn't get chocolate
coated and really that's just a
manufacturing defect that none of
you were supposed to be exposed to.
The clean aperture,
really the material that we
all want to have is that nice
chocolate area in the center.
When we set QuickTime to
the clean aperture mode,
you only get the chocolaty goodness,
all those other things go away.
So for those of you who are interested,
these are the values that we are
currently using in QuickTime.
And we've been using these in terms
of the QuickTime codecs for some time.
If you want to experiment
with your own content,
you can bring up the content in the
QuickTime Player property panel.
You can select the movie,
presentation tab,
Click the conform aperture mode to,
and there's a drop down for
the four aperture modes.
So you can see what these
things actually look like.
There's an available API that we're
going to talk about in a moment.
There's both a C API and Apple Script.
So next I'd like to briefly
talk to you about tagging.
Failure to tag your content is the
number one source of basically image
quality problems that are reported to us.
Tagging really is used to allow you,
the developer of content,
to describe to QuickTime what
is the nature of the content.
If those tags aren't provided,
then QuickTime disables most
of the advanced features.
You don't get aspect ratio correction,
no clean aperture,
and other things that we're
not going to talk about today,
like color correction, are all disabled.
This causes QuickTime to basically guess
your intentions if it's not tagged.
So it's guessing that means that
you're likely not going to get the
results that you want or intend.
There's a programmatic interface for
attaching your tags to your movies.
And you can look at these
tags using dumpster that we're
going to do very quickly.
So hopefully you all have been
exposed to Dumpster before.
If not, you can download it.
In this case,
we're looking at the sample description.
You can see there's values for pass,
but in this case,
you can see that same 10 to
11 ratio as we saw before.
You can also see that there's a
clean aperture mode that's set.
and the dimensions.
On the second area in the track,
you can see that there
are these three values,
the clean aperture dimensions,
the production aperture dimensions,
and the tracking coded dimensions.
And those are all computed
based on those other values.
This is a very quick look at the API.
The first two calls are optional.
Basically allows you to add an
image description for PASP and CLAP.
The second call,
Generate Movie Aperture Mode Dimension,
either will use those values or
it'll query those from the codec.
Codecs that are PASP and CLAP aware
will provide those dimensions for you
if you don't declare them yourself.
And then finally,
you can set the aperture mode
using the QuickTime property API.
So keep in mind the new
codecs are Aperture aware.
QuickTime will default to
the classic behavior if your
movie content's not tagged.
And as developers,
you really should remove any
workarounds you might have to have
corrected the aspect ratio yourself.
Please adopt these modes, excuse me,
Aperture Mode APIs,
and be sure to tag all your content.
So next, I turn over to David Eldred.
Thank you, David.
Thanks.
Thanks a lot, Ken.
So an important part of any modern,
any high performance video
pipeline is a modern codec.
And modern codecs introduce all sorts of,
introduce a new set of concerns.
So as new codecs are developed,
they're always adding a bunch of
new tricks in order to advance or
increase the compression without
decreasing the quality of your video.
And a huge number of these tricks
are completely internal to the codec.
They have no impact on you as an end
user or as a developer or anything.
But there's a few tricks that they
use that actually do require some
change in behavior in your application,
depending on how you
interact with QuickTime.
But it's important to note that if you
stick to the higher level interfaces,
things like QtKit,
things like in Carbon using
the movie and track level APIs,
these will actually hide all
of these complexities from you.
You don't have to worry about a thing.
And there's also some things
like using the clipboard for cut,
copy, and paste.
It hides the complexities
of movie editing from you.
But not everyone has this luxury.
And in order to understand
these complexities I'm talking
about a little bit more,
we're going to just take a quick look
at some aspects of video compression.
Simplest forms of compression
tend to involve just key frames.
Every single frame of video is
compressed as its own image.
There's no dependencies on other images.
These are also called iframes.
And as you can see in this,
it's very simple.
Say you want to display frame
number four in this sequence.
All you'd have to do is decode
and display frame number four.
It's that easy.
But codec developers
have-- they're smart folks.
They realize that there's a lot
of information that's similar
between these different frames.
And so that's where this whole
idea of difference frames comes in.
With difference frames,
individual frames of video depend upon
earlier displayed frames of video.
So doing this,
you get much better compression,
and there's a few
complexities that are added.
And difference frames
are also called P-frames.
So looking at our same sequence,
the first frame,
we still want to compress
that as an iframe.
It's completely self-contained.
But the next frame in the sequence,
it's basically just that iframe
but with a tiny bit of car added.
And so if you keep on
describing that section,
most of it in terms
of the previous frame,
you only have to add the small amount
of information required for that car.
And similarly,
frame number three is actually an
awful lot like frame number two.
So describing in terms
of frame number two,
but that bit of car that was
added is shifted to the left
and a new strip of car is added.
And so on for the rest of
the frames in the movie.
They're all described in
terms of the previous frame.
And you can see we get much
better compression this way.
But clever codec designers,
they see that the first frame and
the final frame of this sequence
actually contain basically all
of the information we want.
And describing the frames in
between those two points in terms
of those two frames will make
a huge difference in compression.
So that means that the frames in
the middle of the sequence will
depend upon an earlier displayed
frame and a later displayed frame.
This is bidirectional prediction.
And using this,
you can get better compression.
Random access is a
little bit complicated,
and these bidirectionally
predicted frames,
they're also called B-frames.
So looking at that same sequence,
we once again would like to display
that first frame as an iframe.
But instead of going on to
the second displayed frame,
we want to go on to the
final frame in the sequence.
And we'll encode that frame as
a difference frame or a P frame
based on that first frame.
And then, using these two frames,
we're able to describe
each frame in between.
So frame number two is basically the
first frame plus the car that was added
in the final frame shifted to the right.
And same for frame number two.
And frame number three-- well, sorry,
off by one.
And frame number five.
And you can see we get much
better compression this way.
So it's all very interesting,
but what does it really
mean inside of QuickTime?
So this means that each frame of video,
each video sample could
have a distinct display,
decode and display time.
Previously,
frames of video would just have
a single time attached to them.
That's the display time.
But now,
things are a little more complicated.
So in our previous example,
I love this sequence,
the first frame has a decode
and display time of zero.
And it's important to note that frames
are stored in the movie in decode order.
So we're going to look
at them in that way.
So the next frame in decode order is
actually the final frame in the sequence.
So it's got a decode time of
10 and a display time of 50.
And then all of our
B-frames are in order,
one after the other, display times 20,
30, 40-- sorry, decode times 20, 30, 40,
and 50.
And their display times are 10, 20, 30,
and 40.
Inside the QuickTime file,
the display time is generally stored
as an offset from the decode time.
So this offset for the
first frame would be zero.
The offset for the
second frame would be 40.
And for each following frame,
all of these B frames,
the offset is negative 10.
And this is sort of how you figure
out that frames are reordered.
If you ever have negative offsets,
there's frame reordering.
So that's what it means for QuickTime,
but what it really means for you
is we have a bunch of APIs that
are a little bit ambiguous.
So we've updated a ton of APIs in
the media and the sample level
in order to disambiguate things.
Things like getMediaNextInterestingTime,
very simple,
getMediaNextInterestingDecodeTime,
getMediaNextInterestingDisplayTime.
Same for getMediaDuration,
both a decode and a display variation.
addMediaSample.
That previously took a single
timestamp for that media sample.
Now you can have two timestamps,
the decode and the display time.
So we've had to add addMediaSample too.
And this is just a small sampling
of the APIs that have changed at
the media and sample level in order
to accommodate these frames with
distinct decode and display times.
It's very important to note here that
the track and movie level APIs that are
very similar to these are unchanged.
They assume you're talking about
display time and there's really nothing
else that makes sense at that level.
So get movie next interesting time
is still the only way to query
movie for that sort of value.
And if you were to use
one of these old APIs,
get media next interesting time
on an H264 movie or another
movie that has reordered content,
you would get an error back.
So if you haven't
switched to the new APIs,
I hope you're ready to deal with errors.
So that's a little talk about those APIs.
We've introduced a bunch of
other APIs in order to deal
with modern codecs like this.
There's a whole set of new compressor
and decompressor interfaces.
These have been around
for a little while,
but these allow you to write your
own codecs that implement B-frames.
You can get off of GWorlds,
and you can do multi-pass compression.
You can have a codec that
supports multi-pass compression.
And we have some fantastic sample code.
It's this example IPB codec.
And suggest all codec
writers check it out.
And please come and visit
us in the lab tomorrow.
Find us at the beer bash.
Track us down if you're
interested in codec writing and
you want some help with this.
So we had these old
decompression sequence APIs.
Those didn't deal well with B-frames.
They were very G-World based.
And so we have the new decompression
session APIs that replace them.
Get you off of G-Worlds,
get you off of QuickDraw,
compatible with the old
codecs as well as new codecs.
So if you're currently using
the decompression sequence APIs,
it's a great idea to switch
to decompression sessions.
And we've got some sample code,
the movie video chart sample code,
which I believe is
linked to this session,
which demonstrates the usage
of decompression sessions.
And we updated decompression sequences,
so now we've got,
we definitely had to update
compression sequences.
Sequences are bad, sequences are old.
Use sessions.
We've got compression sessions now,
allow you to do GWorld-free compression.
You pack things into CVPixel buffers
and you get pixel buffers out.
I mean,
the way these work is you open up a
compression session and you're gonna feed
it your frames in display order and it's
gonna hold on to some amount of them.
And when it's ready to output frames,
it'll call your output callback
and it'll give you these encoded
frames out in decode order.
And since they're in decode order,
they're ready to insert into your
media or do whatever you want with.
and supports frame reordering,
it supports multi-pass.
Check it out.
And with that,
I'd actually like to go to a demo.
And the demo is-- so we're going to
look at how to use a movie export in
order to export iPod-compatible video.
And where's my mouse?
There it is.
I'm going to do iPod compatible export.
And we're going to do it without
presenting-- show you how to
do that without presenting
any UI to the end user.
And so you can integrate this
into your own application.
So the way we're going to do this,
and just as an example-- so we've
got this beautiful app here.
Just for fun, we're going to add a
little Core Image effect.
You get the idea.
The way that we do this iPod
export is we're gonna-- you need
to at least once invoke this--
We're using the MPEG-4 exporter.
And you need to open this dialog.
And we're going to choose
iPod-compatible settings.
If you're interested in
getting the details of this,
it can help you out.
But you have to make sure
we're doing H.264 video.
To be conservative,
we're going to choose 500 kilobits.
We'll let it do automatic keyframing.
The important thing is to make sure
that we're baseline compatible.
And we'll let it do
multi-pass compression.
When I click OK here,
it's not going to do the export.
All I've done is invoke that dialog
and save its settings off to an Atom
container inside my application.
And I'm not going to
do an export with them.
Then I've closed that exporter component.
And you could do that in
some other application,
save these settings off, you know,
inside your application and never--
and then use those settings as
we're going to do over here,
apply them without any interaction with
the user to another export component.
So, I can't see that too well,
but I'm going to give,
all I'm going to do is present,
save dialogue.
Click Save and I do-- so it's going to go
ahead and do some multi-pass export here.
And it's rendering this to the
screen as it's doing the export,
doing core image effects on top
of it and all that crazy stuff.
And then this application reads
that buffer back from the screen.
And there's my exported movie.
Should work on your iPod.
And I'm going to really quickly
show you the code that's doing--
that's both invoking the first export
dialog where I save off the settings,
but that's the code that you
actually probably wouldn't
want in your final application.
And then I'll show you the export that--
So, first thing you have to do is
actually open an export component.
Here I'm opening an
MPEG-4 export component.
And so this is the call where
I'm actually invoking the dialog.
So just going to do movie
export do user dialog.
That presents the UI.
And then when the UI is dismissed,
when the user clicks the OK button,
the application continues here.
And we do a movie export get
settings as Atom Container call.
And in this case, in the application,
we're just saving this
off to a global variable,
the export settings.
But you could have this saved
off inside your application and
never have to do any of this.
And so this is the function that
actually gets called when you
click the export to iPod button.
And it is going to, just like before,
we open up an MPEG-4 export component.
But then I'm going to call movie export
set settings from Atom Container.
Very simple.
And that just sucks in those
same settings that we had before,
just as if the user had
entered them themselves.
And, yeah, then the important thing here
is we're doing a movie export
from procedures to DataRef.
And the rest of the stuff going
on in this demo is all about all
of the complications involved with
pulling the data back from the
screen after it's been rendered.
If you're interested in that,
you can look at that some more.
But it's not really the critical part of
the demo as far as the iPod is concerned.
But there's that demo.
Back to slides.
And so with that,
I think I'm done and I'd like to
bring Frank Doepke up here to talk
to you more about the video pipeline.
Thank you, David.
Good afternoon.
I know everybody wants
to get to the beer bash,
but be aware there will be plenty of
water bottles and broccoli will also be
available for you who are really hungry.
So I'm here to talk a little
bit about the video pipeline.
You know that we-- oops, sorry.
I pressed the wrong button.
There we go, video pipeline.
With QuickTime 7,
we opened up the pipeline for you so that
you can actually access the frames before
they actually go up to the display.
You're not just rendering
to a G world anymore.
You can now go in and access the frames,
draw them yourselves,
do all kinds of crazy
stuff with those frames.
To do that, we use a visual context.
And there are two.
And there's been some confusion.
So let me talk a little bit
about the difference between
these two visual contexts.
So first of all,
we have the OpenGL visual context.
The frames are uploaded
as textures to the screen,
and so you get a fast playback.
This is when you want to render to the
screen or you want to preview a movie.
That's when you use the
OpenGL Visual Context.
And then we have a pixel
buffer visual context.
This one is kind of like for
your off-screen rendering,
when you did in the past create an
off-screen G world rendered into that.
What this means actually is that
all the pixels are in main memory.
And so you can access them,
do whatever you want
with them in main memory.
They are not uploaded
to the graphics card.
And those are the two main contexts
that you actually want to use.
We do have some sample code also
out on the website that shows you
the differences between those two.
But as you, for those who were in
the Qt Kit session heard,
there's the new use actually of
the Visual Context and that is
together with the Capture API.
With the Capture API,
we want to replace the sequence grabber.
So we have new ways of capturing
movie and actually accessing it
through the Visual Context pipeline.
So you don't have to deal
with G-Worlds anymore.
It's much more modern interface.
Tim gave you all the goodies
what we have with this part.
I want to just focus on the use
together with the Visual Context.
You can record from more than
one destination and also work
from more than one camera.
So with that,
I would like to give you a little
demo of the Live Video Mixer 3
that uses the new Visual Context.
So you've seen the live video
mixer in the past already and
what we taught him as a new trick
here is that we have video in,
so I'll just grab some video
material for the first two channels.
And so I can start play this now.
And you can already see me
there in the bottom of the
corner where I'm actually here.
So I can make now the appropriate
comments to this game of
pool here in the background.
So let me position myself a
little bit correctly here.
So you can move it around.
So I can go up into this corner and say
yes that the player is using that pointy
stick to what the experts call the ball,
I think.
And let's also bring in here we have,
of course, the other frame,
the other camera angle
we can bring this in.
And this is just using now
the new QtKit capture API.
When you look into the sample code of it,
you will actually see that
the rendering part of it,
I simply have to subclass my rendering
of the regular movie and it looks very,
very similar.
The only thing I don't have to
do is actually do the play part.
So everything else for the rendering
is using the same OpenGL code for it
to render these core video frames.
On the step,
I would like to go back to slides,
please.
Next thing, you heard a lot about
Core Animation already.
So Core Animation also
works great with QuickTime.
You can use this for compositing and
So you heard Core Animation is new
in Leopard and it makes it really,
really easy to do composite and
all kinds of effects in your UI.
And it really gives your
applications a new kick.
And one of the things, for instance,
that was really, really tough in the
past was when you had,
for instance, your movies,
you want to play them in the background
of whatever you do in your application,
it was very difficult to get like
AppKit controls on top of it because you
used an OpenGL context and AppKit did not
work very well with that on top of it.
So this has changed now
when you use Core Animation.
And let me give you a little
demo of that part as well.
So I have a little sample
app here that plays a movie.
And what I can do now here-- so
I can actually fade that movie a
little bit into the background.
You see regular app kit controls
right here in the corner.
We're going to play some
very saddened movie music.
And we can play some funky effects
that makes us look really groovy.
Our boss is very happy
about that music as well,
so we seem to use some frequency levels
and let's just compose it on top of it.
Of course, we can make this look a
little more spacey in general.
Since it's already late in the day,
the eyes are getting a little blurry.
I can also do some live
resizing with this part.
And this is all done
through Core Animation.
And this is almost shocking how little
code was needed to do this kind of stuff.
Enough of that music.
Can we go back to the slides, please?
What I would like to mention
is that the Live Video Mixer
3 as well as this LayerKit,
sorry, that was a little blooper there.
It's actually called Core Animation now.
We used to call it LayerKit,
but you find it actually
under the LK QuickTime demo.
They are both associated
with the session,
so you can download their sample
code and already play around with it.
So next we want to talk a little
bit about the performance.
So I'm not under commission
based here to sell you,
OK, what's the most fanciest API that you
can use that has clear code on it?
We want to actually direct you
towards using the correct API.
Because there's been a lot of confusion
because we have different sets of it,
and what is the right
thing for me to use?
So if you simply want
to play back a movie,
you're fine in just using QtKit.
It works in all cases,
and it will just play back your movie.
You don't have access
to the video pipeline,
but well, you just said,
I just want to play back that movie.
If you want to have access to
the pipeline and do something a
little bit more fancy with it,
you have the choice of using OpenGL.
And this gives you a very
broad hardware support.
Everything that runs with
Quartz Extreme can run with
the Qt OpenGL Visual Context.
And you can do, of course,
all the 3D stuff that everybody does.
But you can also use it
just for compositing.
That's what I've shown
in the live video mixer.
And you see you can also use masks.
So you can get some really
interesting even video compositing
effects done just in OpenGL.
And it's actually not really too hard.
And then, of course, we have Core Image.
As David already showed in his example,
it's very simple to use
some very easy effects.
And also together with Core Animation,
you have some really
nice effect machinery.
There are plenty of plugins also
available to extend this machinery,
but you need, of course,
Core Image capable hardware.
And every product actually that
Apple ships today has the support for
Core Image right on the graphics card.
You can also, of course,
use Core Image on the CPU,
but you might not get the performance
that you actually expected.
Now, when we talk about performance,
the important part is actually to
look at how can we measure or look
at the performance in the moment
when we actually have a playback
problem that we are dropping frames.
Why?
So there are, of course,
the OpenGL tools.
For those who deal with OpenGL,
you're definitely familiar with it
using the profiler and the debugger.
But we also have an old friend,
Quartz Debug,
that learned some new tricks.
Because Quartz Debug allows
you now to look into what
you can do with Core Image.
It actually shows you what's
going on in your CI context.
You can actually see which
filters are actually applied so
that there's no surprises there.
And you can actually judge
how long did a filter take.
So that is important for you because not
every filter has the same complexity.
So when it runs on the graphic card,
some of them take definitely more
resources and take definitely longer,
and that can cause you to drop frames.
Of course, the image size has
something to do with it.
So you need to judge that.
And just to show you actually
how to use Quartz Debug,
I would like to give you
a short demo of that.
[Transcript missing]
Again, our CR Video Demo GL.
I changed a little bit to use
just a very simple filter here,
and that is a CPR tone filter.
And let me launch Quartz Debug now.
What you don't see because unfortunately
we can't mirror here is I go into the
tools menu and show the window list.
And then I get a list actually
that you see right here of all the
clients that are actually running.
So now I have to actually
glance a little bit here.
So this is my CR Video Demo
GL and I can actually see what's
happening in that context.
So let me just actually step
through a few frames here.
And I can see actually
what did render here.
So now I can open this context and...
On the bottom part I can see, okay,
this was the filter that rendered.
When I look at the performance side,
I can actually see when I start
sampling and render a few frames.
I should be able to see some time.
Actually, there we go.
You can see the accumulated time
actually that was used by that filter
during the time that you were sampling.
You can see how many
pixels ran through it.
There seems to be a little problem here.
I have no numbers,
but technically it would work.
And you can actually
see also the throughput,
which is important for you to
know how many megapixels per
second actually ran through this.
So this is new in Quartz debug on Leopard
and this is a great tool for you to find
out when you use Core Image actually
what is really the performance hit
that I take when I use some filters.
And with that I would like to
go back to the slides please.
Thank you.
So those are the tools.
Somebody's falling over there.
But there's no substitute
for actual testing.
If you target a specific hardware,
you need to test on it.
So there's a lot of differences
actually in the capabilities of the GPU,
meaning the graphic cards.
There's a lot of differences
also in what the CPU can do.
And now that we have also both platforms,
we definitely have to look into that.
And those are the main components
that definitely impact how
quickly frames get decoded,
how quickly they can get rendered,
and which filters.
You want to take that call?
Okay, thanks.
Then of course there are
memory considerations as well.
When you have low memory,
you will not be able to hold as
many frames in memory and that
definitely drops your performance.
And if you run multiple streams,
the disk performance is
also very important because
when your hard disk is slow,
you will not be able to
access that many frames.
So you have to look also like
in sampling those parts in your
application when you run into this.
Now, saying that you have to test
on all these configurations,
I mean, of course,
I encourage you to buy every single
computer that you can get your hands on.
But to make it a little
bit easier for you,
we also have the compatibility
lab in Cupertino.
And for all the ADC Premier and
Select members that can go there,
there are some free
cookies that are here.
And they can test on every configuration.
And then you know at least, well,
before I ship it to my customer,
it is running.
So come to Cupertino.
It's actually much warmer than
it is here in the city right now.
Let's summarize of what we really want
you to take away from this presentation.
First of all,
Quartz Composer loves QuickTime and
QuickTime loves Quartz Composer.
So do some creative things by
mixing those together and create
some new material that you actually
have not never done before.
So that opens up really new
alleys and fancy movies.
Then of course look at the tags.
So you saw we really want the
chocolate of the Cocchione.
Leave the crumbs out.
So make sure that you only
get the clean aperture.
And then of course circles
deserve to be circles.
Make sure that you get
your aspect ratio right.
Otherwise things look stretched
and we don't want that.
Then as David said, there's a new order,
so frames can be not in linear
order in your files anymore.
For that,
make sure that you use the latest APIs.
Use the compression session,
the decompression session APIs.
Sequences are outdated, and TV as well,
and API as well.
And then of course,
look at all the new things
that we have in Neppert.
Play around with the QtKit part.
Play around also with the core animation.
And QuickTime is a great mix in media
that you can use with those kind of
new technologies that we have there.
As Ken already mentioned
in the beginning,
QuickTime has already some
years under its belt and
therefore it has lots of APIs.
Some of them are not really
the ones that we want you to
use in today's application.
They will work,
but they are not as good anymore.
So use the modern interfaces and
please move away from G-Worlds.
QuickTime had used a lot of
QuickDraw stuff in the past,
but that is the past.
QuickDraw is deprecated,
so you really want to move away
from G-Worlds wherever you can.
Now,
where do you find modern sample codes?
You can go to our website and Ed Agarberg
was great in writing some very simple
but down to the point sample codes
that help you to use all the new stuff.
Then, of course,
look at the live video mixer.
Look also at the CR Video Demo
GL that we have on your lab red disk
and you can play around with those.
Those are really the best
practices as we can suggest today.
Now, since there is so much in QuickTime,
I know that a lot of you go out and find,
okay, I need to do this and let me
Google basically for some specific stuff.
And, well,
you find some sample code and that
might not be really appropriate anymore.
So, if you see some sample code
that's been written and it
starts with like 19-something,
that might be a little
bit outdated already.
If it's written in Pascal,
I would definitely stay
away from that already.
If it was targeted for something
that we had before OS X,
yeah, stay away from those.
Those might not drag you into
the correct stuff anymore by,
well, because they simply didn't
know about our new APIs.